So we said that lo and la and los and la become le and les.
The four become two.
The four options of lo, la, los, las.
become less and less when it's to him, to her, for him, for her.
And we said that me, te and nos they don't change to get these different meanings.
They stay as they are.
And we also saw that these words medte and nos can mean myself, yourself, ourselves or each other.
So how would you say I speak to myself?
Me hablo.
We speak to ourselves.
Nos hablamos.
Although of course the more natural meaning.
You would probably understand from nos hablamos is we speak to each other as nos also means each other.
Now to get the meaning of himself, herself, themselves.
La and La and Los and Las become se, which is very easy to remember because it's the beginning of self.
So when we want this meaning of self or selves we get se.
So three cap me, te and nos they already have the meanings included of myself, yourself, ourselves, each other.
But these ones that change, these small words that change, lo, la, los, and las, to get the meaning of himself, herself, themselves, is gonna be se
So let's practice it.
He speaks to himself.
How would you say that?
Se habla.
You could say the word for he.
What is the word for he?
El El Se Abla.
El se habla.
She speaks to herself and clarify, use the word for she.
Ella Ella se habla.
Ella se habla.
Good.
They speak to themselves.
Se hablan.
Se habla se hablan.
This se is not changing.
I speak to myself.
Me hablo.
Me hablo, good.
So here we're not using se for me, te and nos
We have all of the meanings included in met and nos.
Good.
Tell me again how is they speak?
A plan.
Good, but the accent was Ablan.
They speak to them.
Now a different them, not themselves.
This group is speaking to another group.
Les ablan.
So now we can go back to a verb like to stay.
To remain was quedar.
So to get the meaning of stay, you say I remain myself.
So how was that?
Mekedo.
Good.
Mechedo.
We remain our self, so we stay.
Nos kedemos.
Ar verb nos kedamos.
Nos kedamos.
Good.
And you stay talking informally.
You remain yourself.
Te quedas.
Are you staying?
Aren't you staying?
No te quedas.
Why?
Don't you stay?
Let's just practice the words for emphasis as well.
So you could say I am staying.
What is the word for I?
Yo.
I'm staying.
I'm remaining myself.
Yo me kedo.
Good.
What was the word for we?
Not us, but we.
Nosotros.
So we have nosotros for we.
How would you say we are staying?
We are remaining ourselves.
Nosotros nos kedamos.
Good.
And if you are a new female group, nosotros will change.
Nosotras.
Good.
Nosotras nos queramos.
If you are all female group.
What is the word for you in the sense of if we want to
clarify or emphasize you are staying speaking informally not te but tu tu good so how would you say you are staying emphasizing that we mean you
Tu te quedas.
Good.
So these were the versions actually we were practicing before with Mete Enos.
We didn't look at he stays
Because actually what we needed to say he stays is he remains himself and we didn't have that yet, but now we do
And it's ghether.
Good.
That's it.
Se keda.
He stays, she stays, you stay.
They stay or they remain themselves?
Se kedan.
Good.
Kerer was to want.
Kerer.
What was I want?
Quiero.
The e of querer splits when we put the stress on it.
Now if you want to say I want to stay, you say I want to remain myself.
So how is that?
Good.
He wants to remain himself or she wants to remain herself?
He wants to stay, she wants to stay
Good.
Quiere quedarse.
She wants to stay.
Ella quiere quedarse.
He wants to stay.
El quiere quedarse.
You fumel want to stay.
Usted quiere quedarse.
What if you wanted to say they want to stay or you guys want to stay?
Quieren quedarse.
So this could mean they want to stay or you guys want to stay.
How would you clarify?
Let's clarify they want to stay.
Ellos quieren quedarse.
Good.
And what if it was a female group?
Ellas quieren quedarse.
Good.
And you guys
Ustedes quieren quedarse.
Good.
And we said that whilst usted is formal, ustedes, the plural you, is not necessarily formal.
Quedarse is the version of the verb that you're gonna find in the dictionary.
So in the dictionary you will find quedar
And all of the different meanings of kerar, which is remain and various other meanings actually this verb has can be used like to fit me queda bien, it fits me well, it suits me well.
And then you will find the next entry, kerar se
And then you will find next to it to stay.
So when this reflexive, when this doing it to oneself
carries a different meaning, it will get a different entry in the dictionary.
And it's not going to be in the dictionary as quedar me o quedar te o quedarnos, but quedar se.
Because this se is also like one self.
No, if it's himself, herself.
Itself is also like one self.
So in the dictionary what you find is to remain oneself.
Kedarse.
The se is written like one
Word, whenever we put se, lo, me, te, nos, one of these small words at the end of the two form, it's written like one word.
We write it all together.
Let's practice this just with one more verb.
We said that to get the sense of realize, I realize.
In Spanish you say to give yourself account, which is a little bit like to take account of in English.
Now you need to look at dar secuenta and know how to manipulate it to get the different versions of it that you might want.
So let's begin with I realize.
I realize I give myself account
Me doy.
Me doy cuenta.
That's it.
I don't realize.
No me doy cuenta.
Good.
We realize or we give ourselves account.
Nos damos cuenta.
Good.
Perfect.
We don't realize
No nos damos cuenta.
Good.
Now we can make the other versions with he, she, it, and you formal and they and you guys.
Because we have se so now we can do this.
So how would you say he realizes or she realizes?
Go back to dar.
Da se da cuenta.
Good.
Se da cuenta.
What if we wanted to clarify?
She.
She realizes.
Ella se da cuenta.
Good.
Good and they realize
Se dan cuenta.
Good.
And they don't realize.
No se dan cuenta.
So this could be they don't realize or you guys don't realize.
Well done